Applications

Dapp paper (“The General Theory of Decentralized Applications”) and Factom’s concept for batching the notarization of digital artifacts paper (the “Notary Chains” white paper).

Dapps, DAO, DACs et DAS sont toutes des abréviations pour :
Dapps : applications décentralisées
DAOs : organisations autonomes décentralisées
DACs : entreprise autonomes décentralisées
DAS : sociétés autonomes décentralisées
Il s’agit de smart contrats qui se comportent comme des entités à part entière pré programmées, voire auto programmées, réalisant des opérations liées à une blockchain.
Ethereum définit u smart contract (ou Dapp) comme étant « un protocol de transaction qui exécutes les clauses du contrats ou groupe de contrats sur une blockchain cryptographique.
Nous proposons la définition suivante. Une Dapp est une application exécutée sur un réseau distribué. Les participants partagent des informations protégées en toute sécurité (et potentiellement avec l’aide d’un pseudonyme). Les opérations s’exécutent de manière décentralisées à travers les différents nœuds du réseau.

Source : Johnston, D. et al. “The General Theory of Decentralized Applications, DApps.”
GitHub, June 9, 2014. https://github.com/DavidJohnstonCEO/DecentralizedApplications.
In a collaborative white paper, another group offers a stronger-form definition of a Dapp.67 In their view, the Dapp must have three features. First, the application must be completely open source, operate autonomously with no entity controlling the majority of its tokens, and its data and records of operation must be cryptographically stored in a public, decentralized blockchain. Second, the application must generate tokens according to a standard algorithm or set of criteria and possibly distribute some or all of its tokens at the beginning of its operation. These tokens must be necessary for the use of the application, and any contribution from users should be rewarded by payment in the application’s tokens. Third, the application may adapt its protocol in response to proposed improvements and market feedback, but all changes must be decided by majority consensus of its users. Overall, however, at present every blockchain project may have a slightly different idea of the exact technicalities of what the term decentralized application comprises.

DAOs and DACs
A DAO (decentralized autonomous organization) is a more complex form of a decentralized application. To become an organization more formally, a Dapp might adopt more complicated functionality such as a constitution, which would outline its governance publicly on the blockchain, and a mechanism for financing its operations such as issuing equity in a crowdfunding. DAOs/DACs (decentralized autonomous organizations/corporations) are a concept derived from artificial intelligence. Here, a decentralizednetwork of autonomous agents perform tasks, which can be conceived in themodel of a corporation running without any human involvement under the control of a set of business rules.68 In a DAO/DAC, there are smart contracts as agents running on blockchains that execute ranges of prespecified or preapproved tasks based on events and changing conditions.69 Not only would groups of smart contracts operating on the blockchain start to instantiate the model of an autonomous corporation, but the functions and operation of real physical-world businesses could be reconceived on the blockchain, as well. As Bitcoin currency transactions reinvent and make the remittances market more efficient, DAOs and DACs could do the same for businesses.A remittance operator might have many costs associated with physical plant and locational jurisdiction, and so, too, do businesses, with local jurisdictional compliance such as business licensing, registration, insurance, and taxation at many municipal and regulatory levels. Perhaps some of these functions could be reinvented
in a more efficient way or eliminated when moved to the blockchain, and every business could be truly global. Cloud-based, blockchain-based autonomous business entities running via smart contract could then electronically contract with compliance entities like governments to self-register in any jurisdictions in which they wanted to operate. Every business could be a general universal business first, and a jurisdictional business later when better decisions can be made about jurisdictions. The same could be true for individuals as general humans first, and citizens on demand later. One example of the DAO/DAC concept in terms of automated smart contract operation is Storj. As previously mentioned, Storj is a decentralized cloud storage platform that completed a $461,802 crowdfunding in August 2014.70 Storj uses the Bitcoin blockchain technology and peer-to-peer protocols to provide secure, private, and encrypted cloud storage. There are two apps, DriveShare and MetaDisk, which respectively enable users to rent out their unused hard disk space and store their files on the Storj network. Purported methods for safely sharing unused hard disk space have been developed by other community computing models like Folding@Home and BOINC, whose software is used by SETI@Home. Of course, as with any distributed project that involves opening your computer to others’ use, caveat emptor applies, and participants in Storj or any similar project should satisfactorily inform themselves of the security details. Storj’s altcoin token, Storjcoin X (SJCX), is a cryptocurrency that runs on the Counterparty protocol. The currency is used to purchase space on the Storj network via Metadisk and compensate network DriveShare storage providers. Storj is seen as a decentralized alternative to storage providers like Dropbox or Google; the company estimates that customers overpay for data storage by a factor of 10 to 100, and that blockchain methods could provide cheaper, more secure, and decentralized data storage.71 DASs and Self-Bootstrapped Organizations Eventually there could be DASs (decentralized autonomous societies)—essentially fleets of smart contracts, or entire ecosystems of Dapps, DAOs, and DACs operating autonomously. An interesting concept related to intellectual property and new ideas is the “self-bootstrapped organization.”72 This is a new business idea arising from the blockchain or via a person, in which the project idea spins out to become a standalone entity with some standardized smart-contract, self-bootstrapping software to crowdfund itself based on a mission statement; operate; pay dividends or other remuneration back to crowdfunding investors; receive feedback (automated or orchestrated) through blockchain prediction markets and decentralized blockchain voting; and eventually dissolve or have periodic confirmation-of-instantiation votes (similar to business relationship contracts evergreening or calling for periodic reevaluations). Automatic dissolution or reevaluation clauses could be critical in avoiding situations like those described in Daniel Suarez’s science-fiction books Daemon and Freedom, in which the world economy ends up radically transformed by the smart-contract type agents inexorably following their programmed code.
Automatic Markets and Tradenets
An automatic market is the idea that unitized, packetized, quantized resources (initially like electricity, gas, bandwidth, and in the deeply speculative future, units of synaptic potentiation in brains) are automatically transacted based on dynamically evolving conditions and preprogrammed user profiles, permissions, and bidding functions.73 Algorithmic stock market trading and real-time bidding (RTB) advertising networks are the closest existing examples of automatic markets. In the future, automatic markets could be applied in the sense of having limit orders and program trading for physical-world resource allocation. Truly smart grids (e.g., energy, highway, and traffic grids) could have automatic bidding functions on both the cost and revenue side of their operations—for both inputs (resources) and outputs (customers) and participation in automatic clearing mechanisms. A related concept is tradenets: in the future there could be self-operating, self-owned assets like a self-driving, self-owning car.74 Self-directing assets would employ themselves for trade based on being continuously connected to information from the Internet to be able to assess dynamic demand for themselves, contract with potential customers like Uber does now, hedge against oil price increases with their own predictive resource planning, and ultimately self-retire at the end of their useful life—in short, executing all aspects of autonomous self-operation. Tradenets could even have embedded, automatically executing smart contracts to trigger the building of new transportation pods based on signals of population growth, demand, and business plan validity.
Source: Rohan, M. “Multi-Factor Authentication Market Worth $10.75 Billion by 2020.” Markets and Markets, accessed 2014 (publishing data unavailable). http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/multi-factor-authentication.asp.
Another proposed digital identity verification business is Bithandle, which was developed as a hackathon project. Bithandle offers short-handle registration, verification, and ecommerce service. As with Onename and BitID, users can register an easy-to use handle—for instance, “Coinmaster”—that is linked to a wallet address via a public or private real-life identity check and a Bitcoin blockchain transaction. The service offers ongoing real-time digital identity verification and one-click auto-enabled ecommerce per “Login with Bitcoin” website access. An obvious problem with the mainstream adoption of Bitcoin is the unwieldy 32-character Bitcoin address, or QR code, needed to send and receive funds. Instead, Bithandle gives users the ability to link a short handle to a Bitcoin address, which is confirmed initially with real-life identity and looked up in the blockchain on demand at any future moment. Realtime digital identity verification services could be quite crucial; already the worldwide market size for identity authentication and verification is $11 billion annually.



BlockChain & Big Data
As big data allows the predictive modeling of more and more processes of reality, blockchain technology could help turn prediction into action. Blockchain technology could be joined with big data, layered onto the reactive-to-predictive transformation that is slowly under way in big-data science to allow the automated operation of large areas of tasks through smart contracts and economics. Big data’s predictive analysis could dovetail perfectly with the automatic execution of smart contracts. We could accomplish this specifically by adding blockchain technology as the embedded economic payments layer and the tool for the administration of quanta, implemented through automated smart contracts, Dapps, DAOs, and DACs. The automated operation of huge classes of tasks could relieve humans because the tasks would instead be handled by a universal, decentralized, globally distributed computing system. We thought big data was big, but the potential quantization and tracking and administration of all classes of activity and reality via blockchain technology at both lower and higher resolutions hints at the next orders-of-magnitude progression up from the current big-data era that is itself still developing.

Réseau social ???
Digital Identity Verification
OneName and BitID are examples of blockchain-based digital identity services. They confirm an individual’s identity to a website. Decentralized digital verification services take advantage of the fact that all Bitcoin users have a personal wallet, and therefore a wallet address. This could speed access to all aspects of websites, simultaneously improving user experience, anonymity, and security. It can also facilitate ecommerce because customers using Bitcoin-address login are already enabled for purchase.
However, blockchain attestation services as currently envisioned are an important first step and could be incorporated in 3.0 versions that include other elements in the blockchain ecosystem. Some ideas propose including digital identity to prove ownership and a non-blockchain-based timestamping element for “time document created.” A potential technical limitation is the contention that the hash might be less secure when you’re hashing very large documents (an 8-GB genome file, for example) compared to small documents (a standard IOU contract), but this concern is unwarranted. The scalability to any file size is the beauty of the hash structure, and it is the hash length (typically 64 characters at present) that is the focus for security, and it could be made longer in the future. The usual threats to hash technology—inverse hashes (an inverse function to attempt to back-compute the hashed content) and collisions (two different files produce the same hash)—are limited in the way hashes are currently used in blockchain.

Virtual Notary, Bitnotar, and Chronobit
Virtual Notary is another project that similarly conceptualizes the need and fulfillment of these kinds of blockchain attestation services. Like Proof of Existence, Virtual Notary does not store files but instead provides a certificate that attests to the file’s contents at the moment of submission. The service provides a certificate virtual notary-type service for many different “file types” such as documents, web pages, Twitter feeds, stock prices, exchange rates, weather conditions, DNS entries, email address verifications, university affiliations, real estate values, statements and contracts, and random-number drawing. 

Utiliser le blockcahin pour les tâches administratives : ex : mariage

BlockChain et droit opposable :
PrecedentCoin: Blockchain Dispute Resolution
Another Blockchain 3.0 project focuses exclusively on using the blockchain for more effective dispute resolution. Precedent is conceptually like “The People’s Court or Judge Judy on the blockchain.” So far there has been no way to take advantage of a centralized repository of precedents used to resolve disputes, so Precedent is developing a concept, framework, altcoin, and community to implement a decentralized autonomous legal procedure organization (as described in further detail in “The Precedent Protocol Whitepaper.” Precedent’s “polycentric decentralized legal system” makes it possible for individual users to pick the legal system and features they like, emphasizing the ongoing theme of blockchain-enabled personalization of governance and legal systems. The Precedent legal/dispute-resolution community is incentivized to develop with the community coin, PrecedentCoin or nomos.


Blog: 
Futarchy: Two-Step Democracy with Voting + Prediction Markets 
Another concept is futarchy, a two-level process by which individuals first vote on generally specified outcomes (like “increase GDP”), and second, vote on specific proposals for achieving these outcomes. The first step would be carried out by regular voting processes, the second step via prediction markets. Prediction market voting could be by different cryptocurrencies (the EconomicVotingCoin or EnvironmentalPolicyVotingCoin) or other economically significant tokens. Prediction market voting is investing/speculating, taking a bet on one or the other side of a proposal, betting on the proposal that you want to win. For example, you might buy the “invest in new biotechnologies contract” as what you think is the best means of achieving the “increase in GDP” objective, as opposed to other contracts like the “invest in automated agriculture contract”). As with random-sampling elections, blockchain technology could more efficiently implement the futarchy concept in an extremely large-scale manner (decentralized, trusted, recorded, pseudonymous). The futarchy concept is described in shorthand as “vote for values, bet on beliefs,” an idea initially proposed by economist Robin Hanson,122 and expounded in the blockchain context by Ethereum project founder Vitalik Buterin.123 This is a quintessential example of the potential transformative power of blockchain technology. There is the possibility that voting and preference-specification models (like futarchy’s two-tiered voting structure using blockchain technology) could became a common, widespread norm and feature or mechanism for all complex multiparty human decision making. One effect of this could be a completely new level of coordinated human activity that is orders of magnitude more complex than at present. Of course, any new governance structure including futarchy has ample room for abuse, and mechanisms for restricting coercion and outright results hacking are incorporated to some degree but would need to be improved upon in more robust models. For the agreed-upon consensus necessary to register blockchain transactions, there could be at least two models, and potentially many more in the future. The first consensus mechanism is the mining operation: with the aid of software, miners review, confirm, and register transactions. The second consensus mechanism is prediction markets. An event might be assumed to be true if enough independent unaffiliated persons have voted their opinion that it is true in a prediction market. Truthcoin is such a blockchain-based, trustless, peer-to-peer prediction marketplace that hopes to resolve some problems with traditional prediction markets, such as bias in voters, and integrate the prediction market concept with the remunerative coin and public records structure of Bitcoin.124 Even farther, Truthcoin aims to provide a trustless oracle service, registering what might be relevant events of record in the blockchain. Some examples of “information items” of interest would be the current interest rate, the daily high temperature, and cryptocurrency daily high and low prices and trading volume. For blockchain-based smart contract operations, independent oracles providing information are a key component in the value chain. For example, blockchain-based mortgage might have certain interest rate reset dates in the future that could be automatically implemented upon having a trustable source of future information, such as that registered in a blockchain by a reputable independent oracle, like Truthcoin.

Blockchain: energivore:
A typicalcomplaint about blockchain technology is the wastefulness of mining, both in terms of unused computing cycles and electricity consumption. The media presents estimates of power consumption such as “the Eiffel Tower could stay lit for 260 years with the energy used to mine Bitcoins since 2009,”128 and that in 2013 Bitcoin mining was consuming about 982 megawatt hours a day (enough to power 31,000 homes in the United States, or half a Large Hadron Collider),129 at a cost of $15 million a day.130
[[Clenfield, J. and P. Alpeyev. “The Other Bitcoin Power Struggle.” Bloomberg Businessweek,
April 24, 2014. http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2014-04-24/bitcoinminers-
seek-cheap-electricity-to-eke-out-a-profit.
129 Gimein, M. “Virtual Bitcoin Mining Is a Real-World Environmental Disaster.”
Bloomberg, April 12, 2013. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-12/virtualbitcoin-
mining-is-a-real-world-environmental-disaster.html.
130 Worstall, T. “Fascinating Number: Bitcoin Mining Uses $15 Million’s Worth of
Electricity Every Day.” Forbes, December 3, 2013. http://www.forbes.com/sites/timwor
stall/2013/12/03/fascinating-number-bitcoin-mining-uses-15-millions-worth-ofelectricity-
every-day/.]]

One response iscryptocurrencies that are apparently more energy efficient, such as Mintcoin.

BlockChain et Big Data: etude génomique

Learncoin
Learncoin could be the currency of the smart contract literacy system, with schools,
student groups, or individuals issuing their own token: MthelieLearncoin, Huruma
Girls High School tokens, or PS 135 tokens (that all convert to Learncoin, and to Bitcoin).
School fundraising in any area worldwide could be conducted with Learncoin
and LocalSchoolName tokens. Just as physician RFPs make the health services market
two-sided, students or student groups could post their open learning contracts (or
funding needs and budget) to a Learning Exchang
